Electrical

Integrates a speedometer and tachometer with wireless datalogging and driver communications.

This year, electricqal subteam will be 

Electrical subteam is just two years old. We do everything from wiring the brake lights to getting feedback to the driver. We haven't encountered any other SAE Baja teams pushing the boundaries of what an electrical subteam could do, and we're excited to find out.

This year, we're equipping the car with a speedometer, tachometer, and a dashboard that will give drivers information such as speed, race stats, and gas level. We are also working on a driver communications system that would let the driver talk to the pit captain during races.


Suspension

Performs geometric optimization for maximum handling and cornering performance.

Suspension makes sure that the car handles as well as it possibly can. Through optimizing the roll axis, camber, and other parameters, we make sure that the car performs optimally on all kinds of terrain for all drivers, not just on asphalt for 150-lb drivers. Despite being one of the longest cars at the competition (56 inch track length), Olin has one of the smallest turning radii at 7 feet.

This year, we want to further reduce our bump steer, further tune our shocks for optimal performance across the entire camber curve, and update our adjustable shock mount design: an Olin original idea that allows us to even out the handling characteristics for drivers of all weights.


Drivetrain

Designs and fabricates our gearbox around an adapted differential and tunes our CVT.

Drivetrain Subteam is responsible for everything from the engine output shaft to the gearbox input, and our job is to manage the transfer of power from the engine to the wheels. Beginning with desired overarching performance characteristics, we design, select, adapt, and tune drivetrain components that enable the car to perform at desired specifications. This may involve vendor parts or parts we design and fabricate ourselves.

Last year, we used a team-designed 2-stage chain reduction, housed in billet aluminum machined in-house at Olin College, along with a tunable CVT. This year, we plan on redesigning our drivetrain from the ground up, including a single-level, size-reduced drivetrain, as well as a new CVT and differential. Our design changes will be focused primarily on optimizing our car’s center of gravity and making our drivetrain more robust in order to endure longer races with fewer, more easily serviceable failures.


Chassis

Designs our frame from 4130 chromoly steel tube and performs structural analysis.

Body Subteam is in charge of the chassis, stylistic elements, and driver interface. Goals for this year include making the chassis smaller and making sure that everyone on the team can drive the car safely and comfortably.

This year will be the third year in a row that the team is building an entirely new car, which opens up many opportunities for redesign and testing. Some examples of redesign for this year include making the car smaller overall to cut down weight and increase maneuverability and handling, to take a look at different types of bracing to make sure the car can handle significant impacts, and to insure that all members of the team can drive the car safely and in accordance with the SAE technical rules. We learned a lot while designing the chassis last year and will include elements such as ease of manufacturing that were vital to building the last car.

Using FEA (Finite Element Analysis) we are able to simulate impacts on the car to insure driver safety. Building sketch models around drivers help visualize designs and improve driver interface. These and other techniques are combined with SolidWorks CAD to design a car to meet our goals.

Building the chassis is not possible without the help of the Olin Machine Shop where team members are trained to use a variety of techniques and machines to help put the car together. We are able to use tools like the water jet cutter and CNC router to insure that parts are made with precision.